Flood Risk Prediction Website (React)
Design a professional, user-friendly website for a Flood Risk Prediction System using React. The website should provide real-time flood risk data, interactive map visualizations, alert notifications, and accessible reports. Use the provided reference images for styling, component layout, and dashboard structure.

General Style and Layout
Use a modern, clean aesthetic with minimal distractions, prioritizing clarity and accessibility.

Employ a sidebar navigation on the left, which remains fixed and collapsible.

Use crisp, readable fonts. Maintain high contrast between background and interactive elements.

Main dashboard displays full-width, above-the-fold map with overlays and modals.

Color Palette and Themes
Base: White/light-gray backgrounds for main content areas.

Sidebar: Dark blue/navy or deep gray tones.

Interactive elements (alerts, risk zones): Clear color codes—green for "low", yellow for "moderate", red for "high" risk.

Accent colors for links and buttons, matching reference image hues.

Navigation (Sidebar)
Sidebar menu, with icons and text, should include:

Dashboard

My Locations

Alerts

Reports

Settings

Display logged-in user avatar and notifications indicator at the top of the sidebar.

Sidebar items highlight on hover, active item remains highlighted.

Main Dashboard Page Features
Search Bar at the top for location-based querying.

Interactive Map Visualization:

Display a color-coded risk overlay using gradient fills (green, yellow, red).

Include map controls for zoom, pan, and selecting overlays (rainfall, river levels, flood zones).

Legend for risk levels (Low, Moderate, High) prominently visible above the map.

Real-time update indicator (e.g., "powered by local weather authority").

Current Risk Panel:

Right side, fixed panel, with current flood risk status (“High Risk: Mandatory Evacuation Order”).

Contains next 7-day forecast with icons for rainfall, flood probability, and trend charts.

A large red warning box for urgent alerts.

“View Detailed Report” button below alert.

Alerts & Notification System
Alert panel displays recent, active alerts with timestamp and risk level.

Alerts should be color-coded and can expand to show details.

SMS/WhatsApp alert configuration in settings, with language preference selector.

Locations and Reports Pages
"My Locations": List of saved places with custom nicknames and quick risk indicators.

"Reports": Table/list view of past flood events, downloadable visual maps and statistical summaries.

Ability to filter/sort reports by region, date, risk level.

Additional UI Components
Settings Page:

Language selection drop down.

Notification preferences (type, frequency).

Offline alert configuration.

Responsive Design:

Mobile view collapses sidebar and stacks panels vertically.

Map Overlays:

Enable toggling layers: rainfall heatmap, river level markers, population/infrastructure risk, risk zones.

Dashboard Metrics:

Small summary cards for rainfall levels, river status, flood warnings.

Accessibility and Usability
Large, legible text for risk information and alerts.

Ensure all interactive elements (buttons, icons) have accessible labels.

Provide high color contrast and sufficient touch/click targets for mobile and desktop users.

Include screen reader support (aria-labels, descriptive tags).

Example React Component Structure (suggested, LLM should create actual code):
<SidebarNavigation />
<DashboardHeader />
<FloodRiskMap />
<RiskLegend />
<CurrentRiskPanel />
<AlertsPanel />
<LocationsList />
<ReportsTable />
<SettingsForm />
Reference Images
Follow the structure and color coding of the provided reference images (, ).

Replicate the positions of sidebar, dashboard map overlay, legend, alert panels, and reports as shown.